# About Me

The incredible true story of Jason Paul.  The best place to start is around 5 or 6, where I started Fencing as my main focus in life. The goal was to represent the United States in the Olympics. As I continued my schooling, I was able to reach the milestones needed to obtain a college scholarship to The Ohio State University. While at university, I still maintained a heavy focus on fencing and the Olympics. I was able to become a National Champion, US team member, and NCAA Champion. Unfortunately, I was unable to represent the United States in the Olympics.

After deciding to relinquish the Olympics, my focus turned to my passions and curiosities, technology. My degree gave me a high-level overview of various technologies used for mass communication. From hardware used to software development, the tool of  web development piqued my interest. As my scholarship allowed for a 4 year term, I graduated, on schedule, with a Communication Technology degree. I spent 1 year working as a mechanic and taught myself a basic foundation of web development based on front-end development (and Flash at that time). I freelanced on a couple of local company static websites and gained confidence in developing a workflow and library of knowledge. I then decided to move back home. 

After a few interviews, I started my software development career at Comcast Entertainment Group as a Web Developer, on the Skunkworks team. The CEG development team comprised 3 main teams totaling 75 devs: E! Online, G4TV, and Style Network. There was a 4th small team comprised of 6 members, Skunkworks, which were allowed to work across all properties and upcoming technologies. As a member of that team, I was able to accelerate my learning curve across the whole internet stack. CEG and the particular team I was on allowed me to put my hands in the various codebases used. E! Online and Style Network were JSP-based sites. My focus was on third-party tool implementation (Twitter and Facebook - which were both rather new at that time), E! front-end development, mobile development (WAP), microsite development, and other various tasks. 

G4TV was a .net website where I assisted in the transition from single server pages to a .net MVC framework. While working with the G4TV team, I gained a great appreciation for a love of mine, video games. I developed a desire to have my name in the credits of a game. After some financial disagreements, I transitioned my services to a smaller, more intimate team at 72andSunny.

72andSunny is an advertising agency comprised of 75 people in total. The dev team was made up of 7 devs. 72 was a Ruby on Rails house with clients such as Carl's Jr,  Nike, Air New Zealand, Bugaboo, 2K Sports, and other brands. While at 72andSunny I focused on the current (actually surprised by this) Carl’s Jr front-end design, Air New Zealand flash ads, and 2K Sports Facebook apps. I was also a part of the initial 3-person team (2 dev, 1 producer) for their 72U program. After a management reorganization, I was lucky enough to be offered a unique opportunity at my current job Naughty Dog. 

Naughty Dog is a video game studio comprised of approximately 250 - 300 people. Naughty Dog had just come off of a rough relationship with an advertising agency and their frequency of developmental updates. So they decided to hire a web developer. I become that Web Developer. The codebase I inherited was based on PHP, which presented a welcomed challenge and added another language to my repertoire. Under Naughty Dog, I’ve created various revisions of unchartedthegame.com (from Uncharted 3 to Uncharted 4 - Prep site, Main site, Maintain), naughtydog.com (front-end and back-end revisions), thelastofus.com (launch and maintained from conception) and various microsites. I’ve managed projects, created and maintained relationships with, and assisted in the selection of third-party vendors.  I’ve also been able to assist in the creation, development, and production of tools for all of Sony 1st party studios. With 6 years and counting, I was able to accomplish my dream of adding my name to video game credits (Uncharted 3, The Last of Us, The Last of Us Remastered, Uncharted 4). 

Insert the Annapurna years.

Insert JMPaul and beyond.

Now we’ve come to the present day. Over this journey, I’ve come to gain a better understanding of working with and on a team, managing a team, and working on a product versus supplementing a product.  
